---
titleTemplate: 网络智能与安全实验室
---

# 研究

## Main research areas and directions

Our main research areas and directions include IoT edge systems, passive wireless sensing systems, wireless system security, RFID technology, cognitive mechanisms of image and visual information computing, extraction and selection of basic visual features, object recognition and image content understanding, computer networks, mobile analytics, and machine learning.

## Scientific research achievements

### Typical achievements:

#### Achievement 1: Passive Wireless Structure Health Monitoring (SHM) System

This achievement has developed a system prototype for health monitoring of ultra-low power structures. Solved the key issues of high power consumption, short battery life, and high cost in existing systems, and achieved completely passive structural health monitoring. Working wirelessly through a reader, the reading distance can reach 1 meter, and the sensor group can penetrate up to 10 meters deep into buildings, reducing costs by 80% compared to existing systems. Easy to deploy on a large scale.

#### Achievement 2: Passive Rail Structure Health Monitoring (SHM) System

This achievement has developed a prototype system for health monitoring of low-cost rail structures. Solved key issues such as high hardware and deployment costs, as well as difficulties in power supply in existing systems, and achieved a completely passive rail structure health monitoring system. The system utilizes the wind generated by the passing of the train to work and can monitor the health status of the railway tracks in real time (deflection, vibration, etc.). The overall cost of the system has been reduced by 85% compared to existing products. This system won the second prize in the 2018 National Smart City Creative and Design Competition.

#### Achievement 3: Processor free IoT terminal architecture

This achievement has developed a system prototype for ultra-low power IoT. Solved key issues such as high power consumption, difficult reconstruction, and difficult maintenance in existing systems, and achieved direct access to IoT peripherals through RF signals. Enabling IoT terminals to operate without the assistance of processors, reducing system complexity and power consumption to only 1/10-1/80 of existing systems. Meanwhile, as there is no need to write embedded programs, this system is also easier to maintain. The paper based on this system was published at the top conference in the field of mobile computing, ACM Mobicom2020, in 2020.

#### Achievement 4: Low power energy sensing technology

A low-power energy detection method has been proposed. It abandons the high energy consumption polling strategy in traditional energy detection and instead adopts a trigger based detection strategy. The device fully delegates the function of energy detection to an energy detection module. Before the energy reaches the threshold, the device can be charged in low-power mode, and only the module detects energy in a low-power manner; When the energy reaches the threshold, the module outputs a trigger signal to wake up the device and start working. Triggered energy detection eliminates the need for periodic wake-up to perform polling operations and process polling results, reducing the computational burden on the device. Its power consumption is only 5.2% of that of polling based detection. The paper "Sentinel: Breaking the Bottleneck of Energy Utilization Efficiency in RF Powered Devices" based on this achievement has been accepted by IEEE Internet of Things Journal.

#### Achievement 5: Plug and Play Internet of Things

This achievement has developed an IoT prototype that supports plug and play of peripherals for rapid functional updates. Solved key issues such as high development costs, high technical barriers, long cycles, and difficulty in restructuring existing IoT systems. The design of this achievement includes a unified peripheral description language, a unified peripheral interface, and an adaptive peripheral scheduler, which can achieve adaptive access and control of common commercial IoT peripherals. The paper based on this system was submitted to the top conference in the field of mobile computing, ACM NSDI 2022, in September 2021.
